1. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2015 Apr;35(4):911-7. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.305150. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Dimorphic effects of transforming growth factor-β signaling during aortic
aneurysm progression in mice suggest a combinatorial therapy for Marfan syndrome.

Cook JR(1), Clayton NP(1), Carta L(1), Galatioto J(1), Chiu E(1), Smaldone S(1), 
Nelson CA(1), Cheng SH(1), Wentworth BM(1), Ramirez F(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY (J.R.C., L.C., J.G., E.C., S.S., F.R.); and
Genzyme, a Sanofi Company, Framingham, MA (N.P.C., C.A.N., S.H.C., B.M.W.).
(2)From the Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY (J.R.C., L.C., J.G., E.C., S.S., F.R.); and
Genzyme, a Sanofi Company, Framingham, MA (N.P.C., C.A.N., S.H.C., B.M.W.).
francesco.ramirez@mssm.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Studies of mice with mild Marfan syndrome (MFS) have correlated the
development of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) with improper stimulation of
noncanonical (Erk-mediated) TGFβ signaling by the angiotensin type I receptor
(AT1r). This correlation was largely based on comparable TAA modifications by
either systemic TGFβ neutralization or AT1r antagonism. However, subsequent
investigations have called into question some key aspects of this mechanism of
arterial disease in MFS. To resolve these controversial points, here we made a
head-to-head comparison of the therapeutic benefits of TGFβ neutralization and
AT1r antagonism in mice with progressively severe MFS (Fbn1(mgR/mgR) mice).
APPROACH AND RESULTS: Aneurysm growth, media degeneration, aortic levels of
phosphorylated Erk and Smad proteins and the average survival of Fbn1(mgR/mgR)
mice were compared after a ≈3-month-long treatment with placebo and either the
AT1r antagonist losartan or the TGFβ-neutralizing antibody 1D11. In contrast to
the beneficial effect of losartan, TGFβ neutralization either exacerbated or
mitigated TAA formation depending on whether treatment was initiated before
(postnatal day 16; P16) or after (P45) aneurysm formation, respectively.
Biochemical evidence-related aneurysm growth with Erk-mediated AT1r signaling,
and medial degeneration with TGFβ hyperactivity that was in part AT1r dependent. 
Importantly, P16-initiated treatment with losartan combined with P45-initiated
administration of 1D11 prevented death of Fbn1(mgR/mgR) mice from ruptured TAA.
CONCLUSIONS: By demonstrating that promiscuous AT1r and TGFβ drive partially
overlapping processes of arterial disease in MFS mice, our study argues for a
therapeutic strategy against TAA that targets both signaling pathways although
sparing the early protective role of TGFβ.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.305150 
PMCID: PMC4376614
PMID: 25614286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]
